README.md, before:

# Django JWT Auth

[![build-status-image]][travis]
[![pypi-version]][pypi]

## Overview
This package provides [JSON Web Token Authentication](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token) support for Django.

Based on the [Django REST Framework JWT Auth](https://github.com/GetBlimp/django-rest-framework-jwt) package.

## Installation

Install using `pip`...

```
$ pip install django-jwt-auth
```

## Usage

In your `urls.py` add the following URL route to enable obtaining a token via a POST included the user's username and password.

```python
urlpatterns = patterns(
    '',
    # ...

    url(r'^api-token-auth/', 'jwt_auth.views.obtain_jwt_token'),
)
```

You can easily test if the endpoint is working by doing the following in your terminal, if you had a user created with the username **admin** and password **abc123**.

```bash
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"username":"admin","password":"abc123"}' http://localhost:8000/api-token-auth/
```

Now in order to access protected api urls you must include the `Authorization: Bearer <your_token>` header.

```bash
$ curl -H "Authorization: Bearer <your_token>" http://localhost:8000/protected-url/
```

## Additional Settings
There are some additional settings that you can override similar to how you'd do it with Django REST framework itself. Here are all the available defaults.

```python
JWT_ENCODE_HANDLER = 'jwt_auth.utils.jwt_encode_handler'
JWT_DECODE_HANDLER = 'jwt_auth.utils.jwt_decode_handler',
JWT_PAYLOAD_HANDLER = 'jwt_auth.utils.jwt_payload_handler'
JWT_PAYLOAD_GET_USER_ID_HANDLER = 'jwt_auth.utils.jwt_get_user_id_from_payload_handler'
JWT_SECRET_KEY: SECRET_KEY
JWT_ALGORITHM = 'HS256'
JWT_VERIFY = True
JWT_VERIFY_EXPIRATION = True
JWT_LEEWAY = 0
JWT_EXPIRATION_DELTA = datetime.timedelta(seconds=300)
JWT_ALLOW_REFRESH = False
JWT_REFRESH_EXPIRATION_DELTA = datetime.timedelta(days=7)
JWT_AUTH_HEADER_PREFIX = 'Bearer'
```
This packages uses the JSON Web Token Python implementation, [PyJWT](https://github.com/progrium/pyjwt) and allows to modify some of it's available options.

### JWT_SECRET_KEY
This is the secret key used to encrypt the JWT. Make sure this is safe and not shared or public.

Default is your project's `settings.SECRET_KEY`.

### JWT_ALGORITHM

Possible values:

> * HS256 - HMAC using SHA-256 hash algorithm (default)
> * HS384 - HMAC using SHA-384 hash algorithm
> * HS512 - HMAC using SHA-512 hash algorithm
> * RS256 - RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature algorithm using SHA-256 hash algorithm
> * RS384 - RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature algorithm using SHA-384 hash algorithm
> * RS512 - RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature algorithm using SHA-512 hash algorithm

Note:
> For the RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 algorithms, the "secret" argument in jwt.encode is supposed to be a private RSA key as
> imported with Crypto.PublicKey.RSA.importKey. Likewise, the "secret" argument in jwt.decode is supposed to be the
> public RSA key imported with the same method.

Default is `"HS256"`.

### JWT_VERIFY

If the secret is wrong, it will raise a jwt.DecodeError telling you as such. You can still get at the payload by setting the `JWT_VERIFY` to `False`.

Default is `True`.

### JWT_VERIFY_EXPIRATION

You can turn off expiration time verification with by setting `JWT_VERIFY_EXPIRATION` to `False`.

Default is `True`.

### JWT_LEEWAY

> This allows you to validate an expiration time which is in the past but no very far. For example, if you have a JWT payload with an expiration time set to 30 seconds after creation but you know that sometimes you will process it after 30 seconds, you can set a leeway of 10 seconds in order to have some margin.

Default is `0` seconds.

### JWT_EXPIRATION_DELTA
This is an instance of Python's `datetime.timedelta`. This will be added to `datetime.utcnow()` to set the expiration time.

Default is `datetime.timedelta(seconds=300)`(5 minutes).

### JWT_ALLOW_REFRESH
Enable token refresh functionality. Token issued from `rest_framework_jwt.views.obtain_jwt_token` will have an `orig_iat` field. Default is `False`

### JWT_REFRESH_EXPIRATION_DELTA
Limit on token refresh, is a `datetime.timedelta` instance. This is how much time after the original token that future tokens can be refreshed from.

Default is `datetime.timedelta(days=7)` (7 days).

### JWT_PAYLOAD_HANDLER
Specify a custom function to generate the token payload

### JWT_PAYLOAD_GET_USER_ID_HANDLER
If you store `user_id` differently than the default payload handler does, implement this function to fetch `user_id` from the payload.

### JWT_AUTH_HEADER_PREFIX
You can modify the Authorization header value prefix that is required to be sent together with the token.

Default is `Bearer`.


[build-status-image]: https://secure.travis-ci.org/jpadilla/django-jwt-auth.svg?branch=master
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/jpadilla/django-jwt-auth?branch=master
[pypi-version]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/django-jwt-auth.svg
[pypi]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-jwt-auth

Commit message:

Add login/session integration, and an auth middleware

README.md, after:

# Django JWT Auth

[![build-status-image]][travis]
[![pypi-version]][pypi]

## Overview
This package provides [JSON Web Token Authentication](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token) support for Django.

Based on the [Django REST Framework JWT Auth](https://github.com/GetBlimp/django-rest-framework-jwt) package.

## Installation

Install using `pip`...

```
$ pip install django-jwt-auth
```

## Usage

In your `urls.py` add the following URL route to enable obtaining a token via a POST included the user's username and password.

```python
urlpatterns = patterns(
    '',
    # ...

    url(r'^api-token-auth/', 'jwt_auth.views.obtain_jwt_token'),
)
```

You can easily test if the endpoint is working by doing the following in your terminal, if you had a user created with the username **admin** and password **abc123**.

```bash
$ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"username":"admin","password":"abc123"}' http://localhost:8000/api-token-auth/
```

Now in order to access protected api urls you must include the `Authorization: Bearer <your_token>` header.

```bash
$ curl -H "Authorization: Bearer <your_token>" http://localhost:8000/protected-url/
```

There is also a provided middleware if you would prefer that to the view integration.  Just add the following to your middleware:

```python
MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
    # ...
    'jwt_auth.middleware.JWTAuthenticationMiddleware',
)
```

## Additional Settings
There are some additional settings that you can override similar to how you'd do it with Django REST framework itself. Here are all the available defaults.

```python
JWT_ENCODE_HANDLER = 'jwt_auth.utils.jwt_encode_handler'
JWT_DECODE_HANDLER = 'jwt_auth.utils.jwt_decode_handler',
JWT_PAYLOAD_HANDLER = 'jwt_auth.utils.jwt_payload_handler'
JWT_PAYLOAD_GET_USER_ID_HANDLER = 'jwt_auth.utils.jwt_get_user_id_from_payload_handler'
JWT_SECRET_KEY: SECRET_KEY
JWT_ALGORITHM = 'HS256'
JWT_VERIFY = True
JWT_VERIFY_EXPIRATION = True
JWT_LEEWAY = 0
JWT_EXPIRATION_DELTA = datetime.timedelta(seconds=300)
JWT_ALLOW_REFRESH = False
JWT_REFRESH_EXPIRATION_DELTA = datetime.timedelta(days=7)
JWT_AUTH_HEADER_PREFIX = 'Bearer'
JWT_LOGIN_INTEGRATION = False
```
This packages uses the JSON Web Token Python implementation, [PyJWT](https://github.com/progrium/pyjwt) and allows to modify some of it's available options.

### JWT_SECRET_KEY
This is the secret key used to encrypt the JWT. Make sure this is safe and not shared or public.

Default is your project's `settings.SECRET_KEY`.

### JWT_ALGORITHM

Possible values:

> * HS256 - HMAC using SHA-256 hash algorithm (default)
> * HS384 - HMAC using SHA-384 hash algorithm
> * HS512 - HMAC using SHA-512 hash algorithm
> * RS256 - RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature algorithm using SHA-256 hash algorithm
> * RS384 - RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature algorithm using SHA-384 hash algorithm
> * RS512 - RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 signature algorithm using SHA-512 hash algorithm

Note:
> For the RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 algorithms, the "secret" argument in jwt.encode is supposed to be a private RSA key as
> imported with Crypto.PublicKey.RSA.importKey. Likewise, the "secret" argument in jwt.decode is supposed to be the
> public RSA key imported with the same method.

Default is `"HS256"`.

### JWT_VERIFY

If the secret is wrong, it will raise a jwt.DecodeError telling you as such. You can still get at the payload by setting the `JWT_VERIFY` to `False`.

Default is `True`.

### JWT_VERIFY_EXPIRATION

You can turn off expiration time verification with by setting `JWT_VERIFY_EXPIRATION` to `False`.

Default is `True`.

### JWT_LEEWAY

> This allows you to validate an expiration time which is in the past but no very far. For example, if you have a JWT payload with an expiration time set to 30 seconds after creation but you know that sometimes you will process it after 30 seconds, you can set a leeway of 10 seconds in order to have some margin.

Default is `0` seconds.

### JWT_EXPIRATION_DELTA
This is an instance of Python's `datetime.timedelta`. This will be added to `datetime.utcnow()` to set the expiration time.

Default is `datetime.timedelta(seconds=300)`(5 minutes).

### JWT_ALLOW_REFRESH
Enable token refresh functionality. Token issued from `rest_framework_jwt.views.obtain_jwt_token` will have an `orig_iat` field. Default is `False`

### JWT_REFRESH_EXPIRATION_DELTA
Limit on token refresh, is a `datetime.timedelta` instance. This is how much time after the original token that future tokens can be refreshed from.

Default is `datetime.timedelta(days=7)` (7 days).

### JWT_PAYLOAD_HANDLER
Specify a custom function to generate the token payload

### JWT_PAYLOAD_GET_USER_ID_HANDLER
If you store `user_id` differently than the default payload handler does, implement this function to fetch `user_id` from the payload.

### JWT_AUTH_HEADER_PREFIX
You can modify the Authorization header value prefix that is required to be sent together with the token.

Default is `Bearer`.

### JWT_LOGIN_INTEGRATION
Creates and stores a JWT token in your session when you successfully login. This token is accessible from the `jwt_token` template tag for putting in an HTML meta header.

[build-status-image]: https://secure.travis-ci.org/jpadilla/django-jwt-auth.svg?branch=master
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/jpadilla/django-jwt-auth?branch=master
[pypi-version]: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/django-jwt-auth.svg
[pypi]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-jwt-auth
